The architecture of a 
replica set
 affects the
set's capacity and capability. This document provides strategies for
replica set deployments and describes common architectures.
The standard replica set deployment for a production system is a
three-member replica set. These sets provide redundancy and fault
tolerance. Avoid complexity when possible, but let your application
requirements dictate the architecture.
Note
Outside of a rolling upgrade, all 
mongod
 members of
a 
replica set
 should use the same major version of
MongoDB.
Add members in a replica set according to these strategies.
Ensure that the replica set has an odd number of voting members. A
replica set can have up to 7 voting members. If you have an 
even

number of voting members, deploy another data bearing voting member or,
if constraints prohibit against another data bearing voting member, an

arbiter.
An 
arbiter
 does not store a copy of the data and
requires fewer resources. As a result, you may run an arbiter on an
application server or other shared resource. With no copy of the data,
it may be possible to place an arbiter into environments that you would
not place other members of the replica set. Consult your security
policies.
To add an arbiter to an existing replica set:
Typically, if there are two or fewer data-bearing members in the
replica set, you might need to first set the 
cluster wide write
concern
 for the replica set.
See 
cluster wide write concern
 for more information on why you
might need to set the cluster wide write concern.
You do not need to change the cluster wide write concern before starting
a new replica set with an arbiter.
Fault tolerance
 for a replica set is the number of members that can
become unavailable and still leave enough members in the set to elect a
primary. In other words, it is the difference between the number of
members in the set and the 
majority
 of voting members needed to
elect a primary. Without a primary, a replica set cannot accept write
operations. Fault tolerance is an effect of replica set size, but the
relationship is not direct. See the following table:
Majority Required to Elect a New Primary
Adding a member to the replica set does not 
always
 increase the
fault tolerance. However, in these cases, additional members can
provide support for dedicated functions, such as backups or reporting.
rs.status()
 returns 
majorityVoteCount

for the replica set.
Add 
hidden
 or 
delayed
 members to support dedicated functions,
such as backup or reporting.
A replica set is designed for high availability and redundancy. In most
cases secondary members operate under similar loads as the primary. You
should not direct reads to secondaries.
If you have a read-heavy application, consider using 
Mongosync
 to
replicate data to another cluster for reading.
For more information on secondary read modes, see: 
secondary

and 
secondaryPreferred
.
The existing members of a replica set must have spare capacity to
support adding a new member. Always add new members before the
current demand saturates the capacity of the set.
To protect your data in case of a data center failure, keep at least
one member in an alternate data center. If possible, use an odd number
of data centers, and choose a distribution of members that maximizes
the likelihood that even with a loss of a data center, the remaining
replica set members can form a majority or at minimum, provide a copy
of your data.
Note
For production deployments, we recommend deplying config server and shard replica
sets on at least three data centers. This configuration provides high availability in case
a single data center goes down.
To ensure that the members in your main data center be elected primary
before the members in the alternate data center, set the

members[n].priority
 of the members in the alternate data
center to be lower than that of the members in the primary data center.
For more information, see

Replica Sets Distributed Across Two or More Data Centers
Use 
replica set tag sets
 to
target read operations to specific members or to customize write
concern to request acknowledgment from specific members.
MongoDB enables 
journaling
 by default.
Journaling protects against data loss in the event of service
interruptions, such as power failures and unexpected reboots.
Important
To avoid configuration updates due to IP address changes, use DNS
hostnames instead of IP addresses. It is particularly important to
use a DNS hostname instead of an IP address when configuring replica
set members or sharded cluster members.
Use hostnames instead of IP addresses to configure clusters across a
split network horizon. Starting in MongoDB 5.0, nodes that are only
configured with an IP address fail startup validation and do not start.
If your application connects to more than one replica set, each set must
have a distinct name. Some drivers group replica set connections by
replica set name.
The following documents describe common replica set deployment
patterns. Other patterns are possible and effective depending on
the application's requirements. If needed, combine features of each
architecture in your own deployment:
Three Member Replica Sets
Three-member replica sets provide the minimum recommended
architecture for a replica set.
Replica Sets Distributed Across Two or More Data Centers
Geographically distributed sets include members in multiple
locations to protect against facility-specific failures, such as
power outages.