Disable access control lists (ACLs)

S3 Object Ownership is an Amazon S3 bucket-level setting that you can use to control ownership of objects uploaded to your bucket and to disable or enable ACLs. By default, Object Ownership is set to the bucket owner enforced setting and all ACLs are disabled. When ACLs are disabled, the bucket owner owns all the objects 
                        in the bucket and manages access to data exclusively using access management policies. 

A majority of modern use cases in Amazon S3 no longer require the use of 
access control lists (ACLs)
. We recommend
                        that you disable ACLs, except in circumstances where you must
                        control access for each object individually. To disable ACLs and take
                        ownership of every object in your bucket, apply the bucket owner enforced
                        setting for S3 Object Ownership. When you disable ACLs, you can easily
                        maintain a bucket with objects uploaded by different AWS accounts. 

When ACLs are disabled access control for your data is based on policies,
                        such as the following: 

AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) user policies

S3 bucket policies

Virtual private cloud (VPC) endpoint policies

AWS Organizations service control policies (SCPs)

AWS Organizations resource control policies (RCPs)

Disabling ACLs simplifies permissions management and auditing. ACLs are
                        disabled for new buckets by default. You can also disable ACLs for existing
                        buckets. If you have an existing bucket that already has objects in it,
                        after you disable ACLs, the object and bucket ACLs are no longer part of the
                        access-evaluation process. Instead, access is granted or denied on the basis
                        of policies. 

Before you disable ACLs, make sure that you do the following: 

Review your bucket policy to ensure that it covers all the ways
                                that you intend to grant access to your bucket outside of your
                                account.

Reset your bucket ACL to the default (full control to the bucket
                                owner).

After you disable ACLs, the following behaviors occur: 

Your bucket accepts only 
PUT
 requests that do not
                                specify an ACL or 
PUT
 requests with bucket owner full
                                control ACLs. These ACLs include the

bucket-owner-full-control
 canned ACL or equivalent
                                forms of this ACL that are expressed in XML.

Existing applications that support bucket owner full control ACLs
                                see no impact. 

PUT
 requests that contain other ACLs (for example,
                                custom grants to certain AWS accounts) fail and return an HTTP
                                status code 
400 (Bad Request)
 with the error code

AccessControlListNotSupported
.

For more information, see 
Controlling ownership of objects and disabling ACLs for your bucket
.

Ensure that
                    your Amazon S3 buckets use the correct policies and are not publicly
                    accessible

Unless you explicitly require anyone on the internet to be able to read or
                        write to your S3 bucket, make sure that your S3 bucket is not public. The
                        following are some of the steps that you can take to block public
                        access:

Use S3 Block Public Access. With S3 Block Public Access, you can
                                easily set up centralized controls to limit public access to your
                                Amazon S3 resources. These centralized controls are enforced regardless
                                of how the resources are created. For organizations managing
                                multiple AWS accounts, you can now use organization-level
                                enforcement through AWS Organizations to centrally manage S3 Block Public
                                Access settings across your entire organization with a single policy
                                configuration.

For more information, see 
Blocking public access to your Amazon S3 storage
.

Identify Amazon S3 bucket policies that allow a wildcard identity such
                                as 
"Principal": "*"
 (which effectively means "anyone").
                                Also look for policies that allow a wildcard action 
"*"

                                (which effectively allows the user to perform any action in the Amazon S3
                                bucket).

Similarly, look for Amazon S3 bucket access control lists (ACLs) that
                                provide read, write, or full-access to "Everyone" or "Any
                                authenticated AWS user." 

Use the 
ListBuckets
 API operation to scan all of your
                                Amazon S3 buckets. Then use 
GetBucketAcl
,

GetBucketWebsite
, and 
GetBucketPolicy

                                to determine whether each bucket has compliant access controls and a
                                compliant configuration.

Use 
AWS Trusted Advisor
 to inspect your Amazon S3
                                implementation.

Consider implementing ongoing detective controls by using the

s3-bucket-public-read-prohibited
 and

s3-bucket-public-write-prohibited

                                managed AWS Config Rules.

For organizations with multiple AWS accounts,
                            consider using organization-level Block Public Access
                            management:

Centralized policy management: Use AWS Organizations to create a single S3
                                Block Public Access policy that automatically applies to all member
                                accounts or selected organizational units (OUs).

Automatic inheritance: When you attach the policy at the root or
                                OU level, new member accounts automatically inherit the Block Public
                                Access settings without individual account setup.

Simplified compliance: Organization-level policies eliminate the
                                need to maintain complex Service Control Policies (SCPs) for Block
                                Public Access enforcement and reduce operational overhead of
                                managing individual account configurations.

Audit capabilities: Use AWS CloudTrail to monitor policy attachment and
                                enforcement across member accounts for compliance tracking.

For more information, see 
Identity and Access Management for Amazon S3
. 

Disable server-side encryption with customer-provided keys (SSE-C) to your buckets

Most modern use cases in Amazon S3 no longer use SSE-C because it lacks the flexibility of server-side encryption with Amazon S3 managed keys (SSE-S3) or server-side encryption with AWS KMS keys (SSE-KMS). SSE-C's requirement to provide the encryption key each time you interact with your SSE-C encrypted data makes it impractical to share your SSE-C key with other users, roles, or AWS services who read data from your S3 buckets in order to operate on your data.

To limit the server-side encryption types you can use in your general purpose buckets, you can choose to block SSE-C write requests by updating your default encryption configuration for your buckets. This bucket-level configuration blocks requests to upload objects that specify SSE-C. When SSE-C is blocked for a bucket, any 
PutObject
, 
CopyObject
, 
PostObject
, or Multipart Upload or replication requests that specify SSE-C encryption will be rejected with an 
HTTP 403 AccessDenied
 error. 

To learn more about blocking SSE-C, see 
Blocking or unblocking SSE-C for a general purpose bucket
.

Create buckets in your account regional namespace

By default, you create global general purpose buckets in the shared global namespace. After creating a general purpose bucket in the shared global namespace, that bucket name is unavailable for anyone else to create within partition. When you delete a global general purpose bucket, the bucket name becomes available again in the global namespace for anyone to re-create.

Although Amazon S3 general purpose buckets exist in a shared global namespace, you can optionally create buckets in your account regional namespace. The account regional namespace is a reserved subdivision of the global bucket namespace where only your account can create general purpose buckets. We recommend you create buckets in your account regional namespace since these buckets are unique to your account and can never be re-created by another account. For more information, see 
Namespaces for general purpose buckets
.

We recommend that you don't delete your global general purpose buckets in the shared global namespace. All AWS Accounts now have a default bucket quota of 10,000 buckets, reducing the need to delete empty buckets from your account. If you delete a bucket in the shared global namespace, be aware that another AWS account in the same partition can use the same bucket name for a new bucket and can therefore potentially receive requests that are intended for the deleted bucket. If you want to prevent this, or if you want to continue to use the same bucket name, don't delete the bucket. We recommend that you empty the bucket and keep it. Instead of deleting the bucket, block any bucket requests as needed. For buckets no longer in active use, we recommend emptying the bucket of all objects to minimize costs while retaining the bucket itself. For more information, see 
Deleting a general purpose bucket
.

Implement
                    least privilege access

When granting permissions, you decide who is getting what permissions to
                        which Amazon S3 resources. You enable specific actions that you want to allow on
                        those resources. Therefore, we recommend that you grant only the permissions
                        that are required to perform a task. Implementing least privilege access is
                        fundamental in reducing security risk and the impact that could result from
                        errors or malicious intent. 

The following tools are available to implement least privilege
                        access:

For guidance on what to consider when choosing one or more of the
                        preceding mechanisms, see 
Identity and Access Management for Amazon S3
.

Use IAM roles for
                    applications and AWS services that require Amazon S3 access

In order for applications running on Amazon EC2 or other AWS services to
                        access Amazon S3 resources, they must include valid AWS credentials in their
                        AWS API requests. We recommend not storing AWS credentials directly in
                        the application or Amazon EC2 instance. These are long-term credentials that are
                        not automatically rotated and could have a significant business impact if
                        they are compromised.

Instead, use an IAM role to manage temporary credentials for
                        applications or services that need to access Amazon S3. When you use a role, you
                        don't have to distribute long-term credentials (such as a username and
                        password or access keys) to an Amazon EC2 instance or AWS service, such as
                        AWS Lambda. The role supplies temporary permissions that applications can use
                        when they make calls to other AWS resources.

For more information, see the following topics in the

IAM User Guide
:

Consider encryption of data at rest

You have the following options for protecting data at rest in Amazon S3:

Server-side encryption
 –
                                All Amazon S3 buckets have encryption configured by default, and all new
                                objects that are uploaded to an S3 bucket are automatically
                                encrypted at rest. Server-side encryption with Amazon S3 managed keys
                                (SSE-S3) is the default encryption configuration for every bucket in
                                Amazon S3. To use a different type of encryption, you can either specify
                                the type of server-side encryption to use in your S3

PUT
 requests, or you can set the default encryption
                                configuration in the destination bucket. 

Amazon S3 also provides these server-side encryption options:

Server-side encryption with AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) keys
                                        (SSE-KMS) 

Dual-layer server-side encryption with AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) keys
                                        (DSSE-KMS)

Server-side encryption with customer-provided keys
                                        (SSE-C)

For more information, see 
Protecting data with server-side encryption
.

Client-side encryption
 –
                                Encrypt data client-side and upload the encrypted data to Amazon S3. In
                                this case, you manage the encryption process, the encryption keys,
                                and related tools. As with server-side encryption, client-side
                                encryption can help reduce risk by encrypting the data with a key
                                that is stored in a different mechanism than the mechanism that
                                stores the data itself. 

Amazon S3 provides multiple client-side encryption options. For more
                                information, see 
Protecting data by using client-side encryption
.

Enforce encryption of data in transit

You can use HTTPS (TLS) to help prevent potential attackers from eavesdropping on or manipulating network traffic by using person-in-the-middle or similar attacks. We recommend allowing only encrypted connections over HTTPS (TLS) by using the 
aws:SecureTransport
 condition in your Amazon S3 bucket policies. For more information, see the example S3 bucket policy 
Managing access based on HTTP or HTTPS requests
. In addition to denying HTTP requests, we recommend that you set Amazon CloudWatch alarms on 
tlsDetails.tlsVersion NOT EXISTS
 that alert you if HTTP access attempts are made on your content. For more information on how to configure Amazon CloudWatch alarms, see 
Creating CloudWatch alarms for CloudTrail events: examples
 and 
CloudTrail record contents
 in the 
AWS CloudTrail User Guide
.

We recommend that your application not pin Amazon S3 TLS certificates as AWS doesn’t support pinning of publicly-trusted certificates. S3 automatically renews certificates and renewal can happen any time before 
                       certificate expiry. Renewing a certificate generates a new public-private key pair. If you’ve pinned an S3 certificate 
                       which has been recently renewed with a new public key, you won’t be able to connect to S3 until 
                       your application uses the new certificate. 

Also consider implementing ongoing detective controls by using the 
s3-bucket-ssl-requests-only
 managed AWS Config
                        rule. 

Consider using
                    S3 Object Lock

With S3 Object Lock, you can store objects by using a "Write Once Read
                        Many" (WORM) model. S3 Object Lock can help prevent accidental or
                        inappropriate deletion of data. For example, you can use S3 Object Lock to
                        help protect your AWS CloudTrail logs.

For more information, see 
Locking objects with Object Lock
.

Enable
                    S3 Versioning

S3 Versioning is a means of keeping multiple variants of an object in the
                        same bucket. You can use versioning to preserve, retrieve, and restore every
                        version of every object stored in your bucket. With versioning, you can
                        easily recover from both unintended user actions and application failures. 

Also consider implementing ongoing detective controls by using the 
s3-bucket-versioning-enabled
 managed AWS Config
                        rule.

For more information, see 
Retaining multiple versions of objects with S3 Versioning
. 

Consider using S3 Cross-Region Replication

Although Amazon S3 stores your data across multiple geographically diverse
                        Availability Zones by default, compliance requirements might dictate that
                        you store data at even greater distances. With S3 Cross-Region Replication
                        (CRR), you can replicate data between distant AWS Regions to help satisfy
                        these requirements. CRR enables automatic, asynchronous copying of objects
                        across buckets in different AWS Regions. For more information, see 
Replicating objects within and across Regions
.

CRR requires both the source and destination S3 buckets to have
                            versioning enabled.

Also consider implementing ongoing detective controls by using the 
s3-bucket-replication-enabled
 managed AWS Config
                        rule.

Consider using VPC endpoints for Amazon S3 access

A virtual private cloud (VPC) endpoint for Amazon S3 is a logical entity within
                        a VPC that allows connectivity only to Amazon S3. VPC endpoints can help prevent
                        traffic from traversing the open internet.

VPC endpoints for Amazon S3 provide multiple ways to control access to your
                        Amazon S3 data:

You can control the requests, users, or groups that are allowed
                                through a specific VPC endpoint by using S3 bucket policies.

You can control which VPCs or VPC endpoints have access to your S3
                                buckets by using S3 bucket policies.

You can help prevent data exfiltration by using a VPC that does
                                not have an internet gateway.

For more information, see 
Controlling access from VPC endpoints with bucket policies
. 

Use managed AWS security services to monitor data security

Several managed AWS security services can help you identify, assess, and
                        monitor security and compliance risks for your Amazon S3 data. These services can
                        also help you protect your data from those risks. These services include
                        automated detection, monitoring, and protection capabilities that are
                        designed to scale from Amazon S3 resources for a single AWS account to
                        resources for organizations spanning thousands of accounts.

For more information, see 
Monitoring data security with managed AWS security services
.