For the rest of this guide, you'll be working with a simple todo

list manager that runs on Node.js.

If you're not familiar with Node.js,

This guide doesn't require any prior experience with JavaScript.

Before you can run the application, you need to get the application source code onto your machine.

View the contents of the cloned repository.

You should see the following files and sub-directories.

To build the image, you'll need to use a Dockerfile.

A Dockerfile is simply a text-based file with no file extension that contains a script of instructions.

Docker uses this script to build a container image.

This Dockerfile does the following:

Copies source code into the image

Installs the necessary dependencies

Specifies the command to start the application

Documents that the app listens on port 3000

Build the image using the following commands:

You might have noticed that Docker downloaded a lot of "layers".

But, since you didn't have that on your machine, Docker needed to download the image.

Think of this as a human-readable name for the final image.

This means that Docker starts your container and returns you to the terminal

Also, it does not display logs in the terminal.

The command publishes the container's port

mapping, you wouldn't be able to access the application from the host.

Add an item or two and see that it works as you expect.

You can mark items as complete and remove them.

Your frontend is successfully storing items in the backend.

At this point, you have a running todo list manager with a few items.

To see your containers, you can use the CLI or Docker Desktop's graphical interface.

Output similar to the following should appear.

In this section, you learned the basics about creating a Dockerfile to build an image.

Once you built an image, you started a container and saw the running app.

Next, you're going to make a modification to your app and learn how to update your running application with a new image.

Along the way, you'll learn a few other useful commands.