Amazon S3 offers a range of storage classes designed for different use cases.

Access management and security

By default, S3 buckets and the objects in them are private.

Policies are a simplified and more flexible access control option.

Storage logging and monitoring

Amazon S3 data consistency model

Amazon S3 is an object storage service that stores data as objects, hierarchical data, or tabular data within buckets.

Then, you upload your data to that bucket as objects in Amazon S3.

S3 provides features that you can configure to support your specific use case.

Amazon S3 supports four types of buckets—general purpose buckets, directory buckets, table buckets, and vector buckets.

Each type of bucket provides a unique set of features for different use cases.

By default, general purpose buckets exist in a global namespace, which means that each bucket name must be unique across all AWS accounts in all the AWS Regions within a partition.

A partition is a grouping of Regions.

When you create a general purpose bucket, you can choose to create a bucket in the shared global namespace or you can choose to create a bucket in your account regional namespace.

Your account regional namespace is a subdivision of the global namespace that only your account can create buckets in.

New general purpose buckets created in your account regional namespace are unique to your account and can never be re-created by another account.

By default, all general purpose buckets are private.

However, you can grant public access to general purpose buckets.

You can control access to general purpose buckets at the bucket, prefix (folder), or object tag level.

This bucket type has no prefix limits and individual directories can scale horizontally.

For low-latency use cases, you can create a directory bucket in a single AWS Availability Zone to store data.

With S3 Express One Zone, your data is redundantly stored on multiple devices within a single Availability Zone.

For data-residency use cases, you can create a directory bucket in a single AWS Dedicated Local Zone (DLZ) to store data.

Directory buckets in Local Zones support the S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access (S3 One Zone-IA; Z-IA) storage class.

Directory buckets have all public access disabled by default.

This behavior can't be changed.

You can't grant access to objects stored in directory buckets.

Tabular data represents data in columns and rows, like in a database table.

All table buckets and tables are private and can't be made public.

These resources can only be accessed by users who are explicitly granted access.

Vector buckets use dedicated API operations to write and query vector data efficiently.

With S3 vector buckets, you can store vector embeddings for machine learning models, perform similarity searches, and integrate with services like Amazon Bedrock and Amazon OpenSearch.

S3 vector buckets organize data using vector indexes, which are resources within a bucket that store and organize vector data for efficient similarity search.

Each vector index can be configured with specific dimensions, distance metrics (like cosine similarity), and metadata configurations to optimize for your specific use case.

Additional information about all bucket types

Bucket names must follow the following bucket naming rules:

Organize the Amazon S3 namespace at the highest level.

Serve as the unit of aggregation for usage reporting.

Objects are the fundamental entities stored in Amazon S3.

Every object is contained in a bucket.

Each access point has its own access point policy.

ACLs are an access control mechanism that predates IAM.

A majority of modern use cases in Amazon S3 no longer require the use of ACLs.

Updates to a single key are atomic.

If a PUT request is successful, your data is safely stored.

The new object appears in the list.

A process replaces an existing object and immediately tries to read it.

A process deletes an existing object and immediately tries to read it.

The object does not appear in the listing.

Amazon S3 does not support object locking for concurrent writers.

There is no way to make atomic updates across keys.

Bucket configurations have an eventual consistency model.

In the next example, W2 does not finish before the start of R1.

In the last example, W2 begins before W1 has received an acknowledgment.

Therefore, these writes are considered concurrent.

After you load your data into Amazon S3, you can use it with other AWS services.

You can work with Amazon S3 in any of the following ways:

The console is a web-based user interface for managing Amazon S3 and AWS resources.

Every interaction with Amazon S3 is either authenticated or anonymous.

To use the REST API, you can use any toolkit that supports HTTP.

Newer Amazon S3 features are not supported for SOAP.