The following sections organize Databricks release notes by release type, including 
Databricks Runtime releases
, 
platform releases
, and 
feature-specific releases
 such as Databricks SQL, Lakeflow Spark Declarative Pipelines, and serverless compute.

Databricks Runtime release notes
​

The following table provides links to release notes for the latest Databricks Runtime releases.

For a complete list of supported runtimes, version compatibilities, and available Beta releases, see 
Databricks Runtime release notes versions and compatibility
.

Databricks platform release notes
​

Release notes for the latest Databricks platform features, improvements, and fixes are found in the following articles:

For all platform release notes, see 
Databricks platform release notes
.

Feature-specific release notes
​

The following Databricks features have their own dedicated release note articles:

Databricks release notes feed
​

The Databricks documentation site provides an RSS feed that contains updates to the product and other feature release notes. Pages with items in the feed have an RSS icon in the upper right corner of the page that links to the feed.

The feed conforms to the 
RSS feed specification
 and can be used with any feed reader or client that can consume an RSS feed. Feed readers offer features such as filtering of feed items and email notifications when the feed is updated, and tools such as 
Slack
 and 
Microsoft Teams
 can consume a feed to post updates. These features allow you to stay informed of the latest Databricks releases.

The Databricks documentation feed is available at the following URL. It is currently only available in English.

https://docs.databricks.com/aws/en/feed.xml

Each item in the Databricks documentation feed contains information about one release note, including the following information:

The date of the release

A summary of the release

A link to the release note

A longer description of the release that often includes links to additional information

Categories, such as an applicable feature area

Understand the release process
​

For information about the release process and upcoming features, see the following articles: