Does AKS offer a service-level agreement?

What is platform support, and what does it include?

Platform support is a reduced support plan for unsupported n-3 version clusters.

Platform support includes only Azure infrastructure support.

Does AKS automatically upgrade my unsupported clusters?

Yes, AKS initiates auto-upgrades for unsupported clusters.

Can I apply Azure reservation discounts to my AKS agent nodes?

AKS agent nodes are billed as standard Azure virtual machines (VMs).

Can I run Windows Server containers on AKS?

Yes, AKS supports Windows Server containers.

What Linux operating systems (OS) are supported on AKS?

What operating systems (OS) versions are supported on AKS?

AKS defaults to Ubuntu 24.04 in Kubernetes versions 1.35+.

In some scenarios, like FIPS-enabled node pools, the default OS version might differ.

Can I move or migrate my cluster between Azure tenants?

Moving your AKS cluster between tenants is currently unsupported.

Can I move or migrate my cluster between subscriptions?

Moving your AKS cluster between subscriptions is currently unsupported.

Can I move or migrate my cluster to another virtual network?

Moving your AKS cluster to another virtual network is currently unsupported.

Can I move my AKS cluster or AKS infrastructure resources to other resource groups or rename them?

Moving or renaming your AKS cluster and its associated resources isn't supported.

Can I restore my cluster after I delete it?

You can't restore your cluster after you delete it.

When you delete your cluster, the node resource group and all its resources are also deleted.

If you want to keep any of your resources, move them to another resource group before you delete your cluster.

Can I scale my AKS cluster to zero?

Can I use the virtual machine scale set APIs to scale manually?

Scale operations that use the virtual machine scale set APIs aren't supported.

Can I use virtual machine scale sets to manually scale to zero nodes?

Can I stop or deallocate all my VMs?

Why are two resource groups created with AKS?

AKS builds upon many Azure infrastructure resources, including virtual machine scale sets, virtual networks, and managed disks.

These integrations enable you to apply many of the core capabilities of the Azure platform within the managed Kubernetes environment provided by AKS.

For example, you can use most Azure VM types directly with AKS, and you can use Azure Reservations to receive discounts on those resources automatically.

To enable this architecture, each AKS deployment spans two resource groups:

You create the first resource group.

This group contains only the Kubernetes service resource.

The AKS resource provider automatically creates the second resource group during deployment.

For information on how to specify the name of this second resource group, see the next section.

These resources include the Kubernetes node VMs, virtual networking, and storage.

AKS automatically deletes the node resource group whenever you delete the cluster.

Use this resource group only for resources that share the cluster's lifecycle.

Modifying any resource under the node resource group in the AKS cluster is an unsupported action and will cause cluster operation failures.

Can I provide my own name for the AKS node resource group?

The Azure resource provider automatically creates the secondary resource group.

You can specify a custom resource group name only when you create the cluster.

As you work with the node resource group, you can't:

Specify an existing resource group for the node resource group.

Specify a different subscription for the node resource group.

Change the node resource group name after you create the cluster.

Specify names for the managed resources within the node resource group.

Modify or delete Azure-created tags of managed resources within the node resource group.

You might get unexpected scaling and upgrading errors if you modify or delete Azure-created tags and other resource properties in the node resource group.

You might want to create or modify custom tags, for example, to assign a business unit or cost center.

Another option is to apply policies and modify tags through the AKS resource itself—specifically via the cluster and node pools..

Azure-created tags are created for their respective Azure services, and you should always allow them.

Otherwise, all resources on your AKS cluster deployment and update operations will break.

This restriction doesn't apply to newly created resources.

Why do I see aks-managed prefixed Helm releases on my cluster, and why does their revision count keep increasing?

AKS uses Helm to deliver components to your cluster.

Continuously increasing revisions on these Helm releases are expected and safe.

Quotas, limits, and region availability

Which Azure regions currently provide AKS?

Can I spread an AKS cluster across regions?

AKS clusters are regional resources and can't span regions.

Can I spread an AKS cluster across availability zones?

Can I have different VM sizes in a single cluster?

What's the size limit on a container image in AKS?

AKS doesn't set a limit on the container image size.

But the larger the image, the higher the memory demand.

A larger size could potentially exceed resource limits or the overall available memory of worker nodes.

When a container image is excessively large, as in the terabyte (TB) range, the kubelet might not be able to pull it from your container registry to a node because of the lack of disk space.

For Windows Server nodes, Windows Update doesn't automatically run and apply the latest updates.

You should perform an upgrade on the cluster and the Windows Server node pools in your AKS cluster.

Follow a regular schedule based on the Windows Update release cycle and your own validation process.

This upgrade process creates nodes that run the latest Windows Server image and patches, and then removes the older nodes.

Are AKS images required to run as root?

The following images have functional requirements to run as root, and exceptions must be filed for any policies:

mcr.microsoft.com/oss/kubernetes/coredns

mcr.microsoft.com/azuremonitor/containerinsights/ciprod

mcr.microsoft.com/oss/calico/node

mcr.microsoft.com/oss/kubernetes-csi/azuredisk-csi

Security, access, and identity

Can I limit who has access to the Kubernetes API server?

Yes, there are two options for limiting access to the API server:

Are security updates applied to AKS agent nodes?

CVEs without a fix are waiting on a vendor fix before they can be remediated.

The AKS images are automatically updated within 30 days.

We recommend that you apply an updated node image on a regular cadence to ensure that the latest patched images and OS patches are all applied and current.

Manually, through the Azure portal or the Azure CLI.

Then it brings a new node online with the latest Ubuntu image and a new patch version or a minor Kubernetes version.

Are there security threats that target AKS that I should be aware of?

Does AKS store any customer data outside the cluster's region?

All data is stored in the cluster's region.

How can I avoid permission ownership setting slow issues when the volume has numerous files?

This configuration might be expensive for larger volumes with lots of small files, which can cause pod startup to take a long time.

This scenario was a known problem before v1.20.

The workaround is to set the pod to run as root:

The issue was resolved with Kubernetes version 1.20.

How does the managed control plane communicate with my nodes?

The tunnel is secured through mutual Transport Layer Security encryption.

Can my pods use the API server FQDN instead of the cluster IP?

This modification is useful in cases where your cluster egress is done via a layer 7 firewall.

An example is when you use Azure Firewall with application rules.

AKS doesn't apply network security groups (NSGs) to its subnet and doesn't modify any of the NSGs associated with that subnet.

AKS modifies only the network interface NSG settings.

If you're using Container Network Interface (CNI), you also must ensure that the security rules in the NSGs allow traffic between the node and pod classless interdomain routing (CIDR) ranges.

If you're using kubenet, you must also ensure that the security rules in the NSGs allow traffic between the node and pod CIDR.

How does time synchronization work in AKS?

AKS nodes run the chrony service, which pulls time from the local host.

Containers that run on pods get the time from the AKS nodes.

Applications that open inside a container use time from the container of the pod.

Add-ons, extensions, and integrations

Can I use custom VM extensions?

Manipulation of the infrastructure as a service (IaaS) resources isn't supported.

To install custom components, use the Kubernetes APIs and mechanisms.

For example, use DaemonSets to install any required components.

What Kubernetes admission controllers does AKS support?

Can admission controllers be added or removed?

Currently, you can't modify the list of admission controllers in AKS.

Can I use admission controller webhooks on AKS?

Yes, you can use admission controller webhooks on AKS.

AKS firewalls the API server egress so that your admission controller webhooks need to be accessible from within the cluster.

Can admission controller webhooks affect kube-system and internal AKS namespaces?

Is Azure Key Vault integrated with AKS?

Can I use FIPS cryptographic libraries with deployments on AKS?

Nodes that are enabled with Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) are now supported on Linux-based node pools.

Any patch, including a security patch, is automatically applied to the AKS cluster.

Anything bigger than a patch, like major or minor version changes (which can have breaking changes to your deployed objects), are updated when you update your cluster if a new release is available.

What is the purpose of the AKS Linux extension that I see installed on my Linux virtual machine scale sets instances?

The AKS Linux extension is an Azure VM extension that installs and configures monitoring tools on Kubernetes worker nodes.

The extension is installed on all new and existing Linux nodes.

It configures the following monitoring tools:

Then, a monitoring tool, such as Prometheus, can scrap these metrics.

It provides a set of tools (or gadgets) that gather relevant information that users can use to identify the cause of performance issues, crashes, or other anomalies.

Notably, its independence from Kubernetes enables users to employ it also for debugging control plane issues.

These tools help provide observability around many node health-related problems, such as:

It doesn't require any special permissions granted in Azure.

Why is it taking so long to delete my cluster?

Most clusters are deleted upon user request.

In some cases, especially cases where you bring your own resource group or perform cross-resource group tasks, deletion can take more time or even fail.

If you have an issue with deletions, double-check that you don't have locks on the resource group.

Also make sure that any resources outside the resource group are disassociated from the resource group.

Why is it taking so long to create or update my cluster?

If you have issues with creating and updating clusters, make sure that you don't have any assigned policies or service constraints that might block your AKS cluster from managing resources like VMs, load balancers, or tags.

If I have pods or deployments in NodeLost or Unknown states, can I still upgrade my cluster?

You can, but we don't recommend it.

Perform updates when the state of the cluster is known and healthy.

If I have a cluster with one or more nodes in an Unhealthy state, or if it's shut down, can I perform an upgrade?

Delete or remove any nodes that are in a failed state or otherwise from the cluster before you upgrade.

I tried to delete my cluster, but I see the error "[Errno 11001] getaddrinfo failed."

Most commonly, this error arises if you have one or more NSGs in use that are still associated with the cluster.

Remove them and attempt to delete the cluster again.

I ran an upgrade, but now my pods are in crash loops and readiness probes fail.

Confirm that your service principal isn't expired.

My cluster was working, but suddenly I can't provision load balancers or mount persistent volume claims.

Which Linux OS versions are deprecated on AKS?

Starting on March 17, 2027, Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) no longer supports or provides security updates Ubuntu 20.04.

Any existing node images will be deleted, and you'll be unable to scale any node pools running Ubuntu 20.04.

Which Windows OS versions are deprecated on AKS?

Starting on March 01, 2026, Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) no longer supports Windows Server 2019 node pools.

Node pools running Kubernetes version 1.33+ can't use Windows Server 2019.

Starting on April 01, 2027, AKS will remove all existing node images for Windows Server 2019, meaning that scaling operations will fail.

Starting on March 15, 2027, Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) no longer supports Windows Server 2022 node pools.

Node pools running Kubernetes version 1.36+ can't use Windows Server 2022.

Starting on April 01, 2028, AKS will remove all existing node images for Windows Server 2022, meaning that scaling operations will fail.