Single Page App (SPA) shell with bootstrap data
Use HTMLRewriter to inject prefetched bootstrap data into an SPA shell, eliminating client-side data fetching on initial load. Works with Workers Static Assets or an externally hosted SPA.
Write to Analytics Engine
Write custom analytics events to Workers Analytics Engine for high-cardinality, time-series data.
Stream large JSON
Parse and transform large JSON request and response bodies using streaming.
HTTP Basic Authentication
Shows how to restrict access using the HTTP Basic schema.
Fetch HTML
Send a request to a remote server, read HTML from the response, and serve that HTML.
Return small HTML page
Deliver an HTML page from an HTML string directly inside the Worker script.
Return JSON
Return JSON directly from a Worker script, useful for building APIs and middleware.
Sign requests
Verify a signed request using the HMAC and SHA-256 algorithms or return a 403.
Stream OpenAI API Responses
Use the OpenAI v4 SDK to stream responses from OpenAI.
Using timingSafeEqual
Protect against timing attacks by safely comparing values using 
timingSafeEqual
.
Turnstile with Workers
Inject Turnstile implicitly into HTML elements using the HTMLRewriter runtime API.
Custom Domain with Images
Set up custom domain for Images using a Worker or serve images using a prefix path and Cloudflare registered domain.
103 Early Hints
Allow a client to request static assets while waiting for the HTML response.
Cache Tags using Workers
Send Additional Cache Tags using Workers
Accessing the Cloudflare Object
Access custom Cloudflare properties and control how Cloudflare features are applied to every request.
Aggregate requests
Send two GET request to two urls and aggregates the responses into one response.
Block on TLS
Inspects the incoming request's TLS version and blocks if under TLSv1.2.
Bulk redirects
Redirect requests to certain URLs based on a mapped object to the request's URL.
Cache POST requests
Cache POST requests using the Cache API.
Conditional response
Return a response based on the incoming request's URL, HTTP method, User Agent, IP address, ASN or device type.
Cookie parsing
Given the cookie name, get the value of a cookie. You can also use cookies for A/B testing.
Fetch JSON
Send a GET request and read in JSON from the response. Use to fetch external data.
Geolocation: Custom Styling
Personalize website styling based on localized user time.
Geolocation: Hello World
Get all geolocation data fields and display them in HTML.
Post JSON
Send a POST request with JSON data. Use to share data with external servers.
Redirect
Redirect requests from one URL to another or from one set of URLs to another set.
Rewrite links
Rewrite URL links in HTML using the HTMLRewriter. This is useful for JAMstack websites.
Set security headers
Set common security headers (X-XSS-Protection, X-Frame-Options, X-Content-Type-Options, Permissions-Policy, Referrer-Policy, Strict-Transport-Security, Content-Security-Policy).
Multiple Cron Triggers
Set multiple Cron Triggers on three different schedules.
Setting Cron Triggers
Set a Cron Trigger for your Worker.
Using the WebSockets API
Use the WebSockets API to communicate in real time with your Cloudflare Workers.
Geolocation: Weather application
Fetch weather data from an API using the user's geolocation data.
A/B testing with same-URL direct access
Set up an A/B test by controlling what response is served based on cookies. This version supports passing the request through to test and control on the origin, bypassing random assignment.
Alter headers
Example of how to add, change, or delete headers sent in a request or returned in a response.
Auth with headers
Allow or deny a request based on a known pre-shared key in a header. This is not meant to replace the WebCrypto API.
Bulk origin override
Resolve requests to your domain to a set of proxy third-party origin URLs.
Using the Cache API
Use the Cache API to store responses in Cloudflare's cache.
Cache using fetch
Determine how to cache a resource by setting TTLs, custom cache keys, and cache headers in a fetch request.
CORS header proxy
Add the necessary CORS headers to a third party API response.
Country code redirect
Redirect a response based on the country code in the header of a visitor.
Data loss prevention
Protect sensitive data to prevent data loss, and send alerts to a webhooks server in the event of a data breach.
Debugging logs
Send debugging information in an errored response to a logging service.
Hot-link protection
Block other websites from linking to your content. This is useful for protecting images.
Logging headers to console
Examine the contents of a Headers object by logging to console with a Map.
Modify request property
Create a modified request with edited properties based off of an incoming request.
Modify response
Fetch and modify response properties which are immutable by creating a copy first.
Read POST
Serve an HTML form, then read POST requests. Use also to read JSON or POST data from an incoming request.
Respond with another site
Respond to the Worker request with the response from another website (example.com in this example).