Note
Starting in MongoDB 8.0, LDAP authentication and authorization is
deprecated. LDAP is available and will continue to operate without
changes throughout the lifetime of MongoDB 8. LDAP will be removed in a
future major release.
For details, see 
LDAP Deprecation.
Authentication is the process of verifying the identity of a client.
When access control (
authorization
) is
enabled, MongoDB requires all clients to authenticate themselves in
order to determine their access.
Although authentication and 
authorization

are closely connected, authentication is distinct from authorization:
To get started using access control, follow these tutorials:
MongoDB Atlas (M10 and above)
MongoDB Atlas (Free and Flex Tiers)
MongoDB supports 
X.509 certificate authentication
 for client authentication and internal
authentication of the members of replica sets and sharded clusters.
X.509 certificate authentication requires a secure 
TLS/SSL
connection.
To use MongoDB with X.509, you must use valid certificates generated and
signed by a certificate authority. The client X.509 certificates
must meet the 
client certificate requirements.
For more information on X.509 and MongoDB, see:
MongoDB Enterprise

supports 
Kerberos Authentication
. Kerberos is
an industry standard authentication protocol for large client/server
systems that provides authentication using short-lived tokens that are
called tickets.
To use MongoDB with Kerberos, you must have a properly configured
Kerberos deployment, configured 
Kerberos service principals
 for MongoDB, and a 
Kerberos user
principal
 added to MongoDB.
For more information on Kerberos and MongoDB, see:
MongoDB Enterprise

and 
MongoDB Atlas
 support

LDAP Proxy Authentication
 proxy
authentication through a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP)
service.
For more information on Kerberos and MongoDB, see:
These mechanisms allow MongoDB to integrate into your
existing authentication system.
MongoDB Enterprise supports OpenID Connect authentication. OpenID
Connect is an authentication layer built on top of OAuth2. You can use OpenID
Connect to configure single sign-on between your MongoDB database and a third-party
identity provider.
For more information on OpenID Connect and MongoDB, see: