MongoDB allows multiple clients to read and write the same data. To
ensure consistency, MongoDB uses locking and 
concurrency control

to prevent clients from modifying the same data simultaneously. Writes
to a single document occur either in full or not at all, and clients
always see consistent data.
MongoDB uses multi-granularity locking  that allows
operations to lock at the global, database or collection level, and
allows for individual storage engines to implement their own
concurrency control below the collection level (e.g., at the
document-level in WiredTiger).
MongoDB uses reader-writer locks that allow concurrent readers
shared access to a resource, such as a database or collection.
In addition to a shared (S) locking mode for reads and an exclusive
(X) locking mode for write operations, intent shared (IS) and intent
exclusive (IX) modes indicate an intent to read or write a resource
using a finer granularity lock. When locking at a certain granularity,
all higher levels are locked using an 
intent lock.
For example, when locking a collection for writing (using mode X),
both the corresponding database lock and the global lock must be
locked in intent exclusive (IX) mode. A single database can
simultaneously be locked in IS and IX mode, but an exclusive (X)
lock cannot coexist with any other modes, and a shared (S) lock can
only coexist with intent shared (IS) locks.
Locks are fair, with lock requests for reads and writes queued in order.
However, to optimize throughput, when one lock request is granted, all
other compatible lock requests are granted at the same time, potentially
releasing the locks before a conflicting lock request is performed. For
example, consider a situation where an X lock was just released and the
conflict queue contains these locks:
IS → IS → X → X → S → IS
In strict first-in, first-out (FIFO) ordering, only the first two
IS modes would be granted. Instead MongoDB will actually grant all
IS and S modes, and once they all drain, it will grant X, even if
new IS or S requests have been queued in the meantime. As a grant
will always move all other requests ahead in the queue, no starvation
of any request is possible.
In 
db.serverStatus()
 and 
db.currentOp()
 output, the
lock modes are represented as follows:
Represents Shared (S) lock.
Represents Exclusive (X) lock.
Represents Intent Shared (IS) lock.
Represents Intent Exclusive (IX) lock.
For most read and write operations, WiredTiger uses optimistic
concurrency control. WiredTiger uses only intent locks at the global,
database and collection levels. When the storage engine detects
conflicts between two operations, one will incur a write conflict
causing MongoDB to transparently retry that operation.
Some global operations, typically short lived operations involving
multiple databases, still require a global "instance-wide" lock.
Some other operations, such as 
renameCollection
, still
require an exclusive database lock in certain circumstances.
For reporting on lock utilization information on locks, use any of these
methods:
Specifically, the 
locks
 document in the 
output of
serverStatus
, or the 
locks

field in the 
current operation reporting

provides insight into the type of locks and amount of lock
contention in your 
mongod
 instance.
In 
db.serverStatus()
 and 
db.currentOp()
 output, the
lock modes are represented as follows:
Represents Shared (S) lock.
Represents Exclusive (X) lock.
Represents Intent Shared (IS) lock.
Represents Intent Exclusive (IX) lock.
To terminate an operation, use 
db.killOp()
.
In some situations, read and write operations can yield their locks.
Long running read and write operations, such as queries, updates,
and deletes, yield locks under many conditions. MongoDB operations can
also yield locks between individual document modifications in write
operations that affect multiple documents.
For storage engines supporting document level 
concurrency control
, such as 
WiredTiger
, yielding is not
necessary when accessing storage as the 
intent locks
, held at the global, database and collection level, do not block
other readers and writers. However, operations will periodically yield,
such as:
to avoid long-lived storage transactions because these can
potentially require holding a large amount of data in memory;
to serve as interruption points so that you can kill long running
operations;
to allow operations that require exclusive access to a collection
such as index/collection drops and creations.
The following table lists some operations and the types of locks they
use for document level locking storage engines:
W
 (Exclusive) and 
R
 (Shared)
w
 (Intent Exclusive) and 
r
 (Intent Shared)
Note
Creating an index requires an exclusive (W) lock on a collection.
However, the lock is not retained for the full duration of the index
build process.
For more information, see 
Index Builds on Populated Collections.
Some administrative commands can exclusively lock a database for
extended time periods. For large clusters, consider
taking the 
mongod
 instance offline so that clients are
not affected. For example, if a 
mongod
 is part of a

replica set
, take the 
mongod
 offline and let
other members of the replica set process requests while maintenance is
performed.
These administrative operations require an exclusive lock at the
database level for extended periods:
In addition, the 
renameCollection
 command and corresponding

db.collection.renameCollection()
 shell method take the
following locks:
If renaming a collection within the same database, the

renameCollection
 command takes an exclusive (W) lock
on the source and target collections.
If the target namespace is in a different database as the source
collection, The 
renameCollection
 command takes an
exclusive (W) lock on the target database when renaming a
collection across databases and blocks other operations on that
database until it finishes.
The 
renameCollection()
 method takes an
exclusive (W) lock on the source and target collections, and
cannot move a collection between databases.
These administrative operations require an exclusive lock at the
collection level:
These MongoDB operations may obtain and hold a lock on more than one
database:
These operations only obtain an exclusive (W) collection lock instead of
a global exclusive lock.
This operation obtains an exclusive (W) lock on the target database,
an intent shared (r) lock on the source database, and a shared (S) lock
on the source collection when renaming a collection across databases.
When renaming a collection in the same database, the operation only
requires exclusive (W) locks on the source and target collections.
This operation only obtains an exclusive (W) lock on the

oplog
 collection instead of a global exclusive
lock.
Sharding
 improves concurrency by distributing
collections over multiple 
mongod
 instances, allowing
shard servers (specifically, 
mongos
 processes) to run
concurrently with the downstream 
mongod
 instances.
In a sharded cluster, locks apply to each individual shard, not to
the whole cluster; i.e. each 
mongod
 instance is
independent of the others in the sharded cluster and uses its own

locks
. The operations on one

mongod
 instance do not block the operations on any others.
With replica sets, when MongoDB writes to a collection on the

primary
, MongoDB also writes to the primary's 
oplog
,
which is a special collection in the 
local
 database. Therefore,
MongoDB must lock both the collection's database and the 
local

database. The 
mongod
 must lock both databases at the same
time to keep the database consistent and ensure that write operations,
even with replication, are all or nothing operations.
When writing to a 
replica set
, the lock's scope
applies to the 
primary.
In 
replication
, MongoDB does not apply writes serially to

secondaries
. Secondaries collect oplog entries in
batches and then apply those batches in parallel. Writes are applied
in the order that they appear in the oplog.
Reads that 
target secondaries
 read from
a 
WiredTiger
 snapshot of the data if the
secondary is undergoing replication. This allows the read to occur
simultaneously with replication, while still guaranteeing a
consistent view of the data.
Because a single document can contain related data that would otherwise
be modeled across separate parent-child tables in a relational schema,
MongoDB's atomic single-document operations already provide transaction
semantics that meet the data integrity needs of the majority of
applications. One or more fields may be written in a single operation,
including updates to multiple sub-documents and elements of an array.
The guarantees provided by MongoDB ensure complete isolation as a
document is updated; any errors cause the operation to roll back so
that clients receive a consistent view of the document.
For situations that require atomicity of reads and writes to multiple
documents (in a single or multiple collections), MongoDB supports
distributed transactions, including transactions on replica sets and
sharded clusters.
For more information, see 
transactions.
Important
In most cases, a distributed transaction incurs a greater
performance cost over single document writes, and the
availability of distributed transactions should not be a
replacement for effective schema design. For many scenarios, the

denormalized data model (embedded documents and arrays)
 will continue to be optimal for your
data and use cases. That is, for many scenarios, modeling your data
appropriately will minimize the need for distributed
transactions.
For additional transactions usage considerations
(such as runtime limit and oplog size limit), see also

Production Considerations.
Depending on the read concern, clients can see the results of writes
before the writes are 
durable
. To control whether the data read
may be rolled back or not, clients can use the 
readConcern
 option.
A lock-free read operation runs immediately: it is not blocked when
another operation has an exclusive (X) write lock on the collection.
Starting in MongoDB 5.0, the following read operations are not blocked
when another operation holds an exclusive (X) write lock on the
collection:
When writing to a collection, 
mapReduce
 and

aggregate
 hold an intent exclusive (IX) lock. Therefore, if
an exclusive X lock is already held on a collection,

mapReduce
 and 
aggregate
 write operations are
blocked.
For information, see: