Environment variables are key-value pairs configured outside your source code so that each value can change depending on the 
Environment
. These values are encrypted at rest and visible to any user that has access to the 
project
. It is safe to use both non-sensitive and sensitive data, such as tokens.

Your source code can read these values to change behavior during the 
Build Step
 or during 
Function
 execution.

Any change you make to environment variables are not applied to previous deployments, they only apply to new deployments.

Environment variables can either be declared at the team or project level. When declared at the team level, they are available to all projects within the team. When declared at the project level, they are only available to that project.

To learn how to create and manage environment variables, see 
Managing environment variables
.

Developers on all plans using the runtimes stated below can use a total of 
64 KB
 in Environments Variables 
per-Deployment
 on Vercel. This 
limit
 is for all variables combined, and so no 
single
 variable can be larger than 64 KB. The total size includes any variables configured through the dashboard or the 
CLI
.

With support for 64 KB of environment variables, you can add large values for authentication tokens, JWTs, or certificates.

Deployments using the following runtimes can support environment variables up to 64 KB:

Node.js

Python

Ruby

Go

PHP Community Runtime

Vercel also provides support for custom runtimes, through the Build Output API. For information on creating custom runtime support, see the following guides:

While Vercel allows environment variables up to a total of 64KB in size, Edge
Functions and Middleware using the 
edge
 runtime are limited to 5KB per
Environment Variable.

For each Environment Variable, you can select one or more Environments to apply the Variable to:

Environment
Description
Production
When selected, the Environment Variable will be applied to your next Production Deployment. To create a Production Deployment, push a commit to the 
Production Branch
 (usually 
main
) or run 
vercel --prod
.
Preview
The Environment Variable is applied to your next Preview Deployment. Preview Deployments are created when you push to a branch that is not the 
Production Branch
 or run 
vercel
.
Custom environments
With custom environments you can choose to 
import environment variables
 from another environment and 
detach
 when you need to update the environment variable for your custom environment
Development
The Environment Variable is used when running your project locally with 
vercel dev
 or your preferred development command. To download Development Environment Variables, run 
vercel env pull
.

You need Vercel CLI version 22.0.0 or higher to use the features described in
this section.

Preview environment variables are applied to deployments from any Git branch that does not match the 
Production Branch
. When you add a preview environment variable, you can choose to apply to all non-production branches or you can select a specific branch.

Adding an Environment Variable

Any branch-specific variables will override other preview environment variables with the same name. This means you don't need to replicate all your existing preview environment variables for each branch – you only need to add the values you wish to override.

You need Vercel CLI version 21.0.1 or higher to use the features described in
this section.

Environment variables for local development are defined in the 
.env.local
 file. This is a plain text file that contains 
key=value
 pairs of environment variables, that you can manually create in your project's root directory to define specific variables.

You can use the 
vercel env pull
 command to automatically create and populate the 
.env
 file (which serves the same purpose as 
.env.local
) with the environment variables from your Vercel project:

vercel env pull
Downloading Development Environment Variables for Project my-lovely-project
✅ Created .env file [510ms]

This command creates a 
.env
 file in your project's current directory with the environment variables from your Vercel project's 
Development
 environment.

If you're using 
vercel dev
, there's no need to run 
vercel env pull
, as 
vercel dev
 automatically downloads the Development Environment Variables into memory. For more information on the 
vercel env
 command, see the 
CLI
 docs.

For more information, see 
Environment variables for local development
.

Integrations
 can automatically add environment variables to your Project Settings.
In that case, the Integration that added the Variable will be displayed in your project settings:

An Environment Variable added by the MongoDB Integration.