This tutorial teaches you GitHub essentials like repositories, branches, commits, and pull requests.

You'll create your own Hello World repository and learn GitHub's pull request workflow, a popular way to create and review code.

In this quickstart guide, you will:

Make changes to a file and push them to GitHub as commits.

You must have a GitHub account.

You don't need to know how to code, use the command line, or install Git (the version control software that GitHub is built on).

The first thing we'll do is create a repository.

You can think of a repository as a folder that contains related items, such as files, images, videos, or even other folders.

A repository usually groups together items that belong to the same "project" or thing you're working on.

Often, repositories include a README file, a file with information about your project.

README files are written in Markdown, which is an easy-to-read, easy-to-write language for formatting plain text.

GitHub lets you add a README file at the same time you create your new repository.

GitHub also offers other common options such as a license file, but you do not have to select any of them now.

In the "Description" box, type a short description.

For example, type "This repository is for practicing the GitHub Flow."

Branching lets you have different versions of a repository at one time.

Branching is helpful when you want to add new features to a project without changing the main source of code.

The work done on different branches will not show up on the main branch until you merge it, which we will cover later in this guide.

Right now, they look exactly the same.

You can make and save changes to the files in your repository.

On GitHub, saved changes are called commits.

Each commit has an associated commit message, which is a description explaining why a particular change was made.

Commit messages capture the history of your changes so that other contributors can understand what you’ve done and why.

In the editor, write a bit about yourself.

In the "Commit changes" box, write a commit message that describes your changes.

Pull requests are the heart of collaboration on GitHub.

When you open a pull request, you're proposing your changes and requesting that someone review and pull in your contribution and merge them into their branch.

Pull requests show diffs, or differences, of the content from both branches.

The changes, additions, and subtractions are shown in different colors.

As soon as you make a commit, you can open a pull request and start a discussion, even before the code is finished.

In this step, you'll open a pull request in your own repository and then merge it yourself.

It's a great way to practice the GitHub flow before working on larger projects.

Look over your changes in the diffs on the Compare page, make sure they're what you want to submit.

Give your pull request a title and write a brief description of your changes.

You can include emojis and drag and drop images and gifs.

When you start collaborating with others, this is the time you'd ask for their review.

If there are any conflicts, GitHub will alert you about the conflicting code and prevent merging until the conflicts are resolved.

You can make a commit that resolves the conflicts or use comments in the pull request to discuss the conflicts with your team members.

In this walk-through, you should not have any conflicts, so you are ready to merge your branch into the main branch.

You will receive a message that the request was successfully merged and the request was closed.

If you want to make more changes to your project, you can always create a new branch and repeat this process.

By completing this tutorial, you've learned to create a project and make a pull request on GitHub.

As part of that, we've learned how to:

Change a file and commit those changes to GitHub.

Take a look at your GitHub profile and you'll see your work reflected on your contribution graph.