Hands On:
 Try our 
What is HCP Terraform - Intro and Sign Up
 tutorial.
HCP Terraform
 is an application that helps teams use Terraform together. It manages Terraform runs in a consistent and reliable environment, and includes easy access to shared state and secret data, access controls for approving changes to infrastructure, a private registry for sharing Terraform modules, detailed policy controls for governing the contents of Terraform configurations, and more.
HCP Terraform is available as a hosted service at 
https://app.terraform.io
. Small teams can sign up for free to connect Terraform to version control, share variables, run Terraform in a stable remote environment, and securely store remote state. Paid editions allow you to add more than five users, create teams with different levels of permissions, and collaborate more effectively.
HCP Terraform 
Standard
 Edition allows organizations to enable audit logging, continuous validation, and automated configuration drift detection.
Introducing HCP Terraform
: Effective April 22, 2024, Terraform Cloud is now HCP Terraform. HCP Terraform's functionality remains the same, and we plan to introduce new features soon to support a unified HCP experience. To learn more about HashiCorp's vision, refer to 
Introducing the Infrastructure Cloud
.
Organizations with advanced security and compliance needs can purchase 
Terraform Enterprise
, our self-hosted distribution of HCP Terraform. It offers enterprises a private instance that includes the advanced features available in HCP Terraform.
Refer to the 
Terraform Enterprise Documentation
 for requirements, reference architectures, and installation instructions.
The HashiCorp Cloud Platform (HCP) supports managing infrastructure in Europe. With HCP Europe, your resources are hosted, managed, and billed separately to meet 
European data residency requirements
. HCP Terraform is available in HCP Europe, letting you manage Terraform resources in Europe with familiar workflows while adhering to additional data and privacy regulations.
To learn more, refer to 
Use HCP Terraform in Europe
.