Important
The 
atlas deployments
 commands are deprecated as of Atlas CLI
version 1.52.0. Use 
atlas local
 commands for local deployments
and 
atlas clusters
 commands for cloud deployments. We updated
this guide to use the new commands.
In this guide, you will learn how to create a MongoDB Atlas
deployment locally or in the cloud. Then, you will learn how
to create an application that connects to your deployment. To
learn how to install MongoDB Community or MongoDB Enterprise
editions on your own infrastructure, see the 
Install MongoDB
 guide.
This section shows how to set up a local or cloud MongoDB Atlas
deployment and connect to the deployment by using the
MongoDB Shell.
Before you begin this tutorial, you must install
the following dependencies in your development
environment:
Atlas CLI
: Command-line interface that allows you to manage
your deployments from the terminal
MongoDB Shell
: Interactive tool that connects to a deployment and
provides database operation support
Docker
: Platform that allows you to run software within containers,
including local MongoDB deployments
Select the tab corresponding to your operating system
to view the commands that install these required development
tools.
Run the following commands to install the dependencies
by using the Homebrew package manager. If you do not have
Homebrew, you can install it by following the instructions on the

Homebrew website.
brew install mongodb-atlas
brew install --cask docker
Run the following commands to install the dependencies
by using the Chocolatey package manager. If you do not
have Chocolatey, you can install it by following the instructions
on the 
Chocolatey website.
choco install mongodb-atlas
choco install docker-desktop
For other ways to install the Atlas CLI, see 
Atlas
CLI install page.
Note
Docker Desktop
The preceding commands install the 
Docker Desktop

application. After the installation completes, ensure that you create
a Docker account and start the application.
Run the following command and follow the prompts in the shell to deploy a cluster.
If you do not have an Atlas account, the following command
prompts you to create one.
Local Deployment
Cloud Deployment
This command creates a single-member replica set in a container
that runs on your local machine.
atlas local setup myDeployment \
--mdbVersion 8.0 --port <port number> --connectWith connectionString
Note
Replace the 
<port number>
 placeholder with the port
you want to use. The default port is 
27017
, but you
can specify a different port if 
27017
 is not available.
The command outputs the following information:
Deployment created!
Connection string: 
"<connection string URI>"
Save the connection string URI for use in a future step.
This command creates a free tier cluster on MongoDB Atlas.
atlas setup --clusterName myDeployment \
--provider AWS --region us-east-1 --skipSampleData \
--username <database username> --password <database user password> \
--connectWith skip --force
Note
Replace the following placeholder values to create a new

database user
 with

atlasAdmin
 privileges in your deployment:
The command outputs the following information:
Cluster created.
Your connection string: 
"<connection string URI>"
Save the connection string URI for use in a future step.
You can connect to your deployment with the MongoDB Shell (
mongosh
) by running the
following command:
Local Deployment
Cloud Deployment
atlas local connect myDeployment --connectWith mongosh
atlas clusters connect myDeployment --username <database username> \
--password <database user password> --connectWith mongosh
Note
Replace the 
<database username>
 and 
<database user password>
 placeholders
with the username and password you created for your database user.
After connecting, you can run the following command to test
your connection:
The command returns a list of databases in your deployment.
Congratulations! You have successfully set up your MongoDB Atlas
deployment and connected to it. To learn more about how to interact with your
deployment by using the MongoDB Shell, see the 
MongoDB Shell
documentation.
In the next section, you will learn how to create an application that
connects to your deployment and interacts with data.
To connect to your MongoDB Atlas deployment in an application, you can
use one of the official 
MongoDB client libraries.
Select your preferred programming language from the following dropdown menu
to learn how to connect to your MongoDB Atlas deployment in that language.
Tip
Before running the steps in this section, ensure that you exit the MongoDB Shell
by running the 
exit
 command.