You can reference the container by name with other commands.

custom-defined name provides the benefit of having an easy-to-remember ID for a

Moreover, if you connect the container to a user-defined bridge network, other

containers on the same network can refer to the container by name via DNS.

To help with automation, you can have Docker write the container ID out to a

This is similar to how some programs might write out

their process ID to a file (you might've seen them as PID files):

flag makes Docker attempt to create a new file and write the container ID to it.

If the file exists already, Docker returns an error.

By default, all containers have the PID namespace enabled.

PID namespace provides separation of processes.

view of the system processes, and allows process ids to be reused including

In certain cases you want your container to share the host's process namespace,

allowing processes within the container to see all of the processes on the

For example, you could build a container with debugging tools like

Joining another container's PID namespace can be useful for debugging that

Start a container running a Redis server:

If you enable user namespaces on the daemon,

all containers are started with user namespaces enabled by default.

To disable user namespace remapping for a specific container,

The UTS namespace is for setting the hostname and the domain that's visible to

running processes in that namespace.

By default, all containers, including

This is to prevent containers running in the host's UTS

namespace from attempting to change the hosts' configuration.

You may wish to share the UTS namespace with the host if you would like the

hostname of the container to change as the hostname of the host changes.

advanced use case would be changing the host's hostname from a container.

System V interprocess communication (IPC)

namespaces provide separation of named shared memory segments, semaphores and

Shared memory segments are used to accelerate inter-process communication at

memory speed, rather than through pipes or through the network stack.

memory is commonly used by databases and custom-built (typically C/OpenMPI,

C++/using boost libraries) high performance applications for scientific

computing and financial services industries.

If these types of applications

are broken into multiple containers, you might need to share the IPC mechanisms

Enables all Linux kernel capabilities

Disables the default seccomp profile

Disables the default AppArmor profile

Disables the SELinux process label

Grants access to all host devices

Makes cgroups mounts read-write

In other words, the container can then do almost everything that the host can

This flag exists to allow special use-cases, like running Docker within

Containers in this mode can get a root shell on the host

and take control over the system.

For most use cases, this flag should not be the preferred solution.

If your container requires escalated privileges,

you should prefer to explicitly grant the necessary permissions,

Runtime privilege and Linux capabilities

The following example doesn't work, because by default, Docker drops most

required to mount filesystems).

If the path doesn't exist, Docker creates it inside the container.

This (size) constraints the container filesystem size to 120G at creation time.

Under these conditions, you can pass any size less than the backing filesystem size.

size less than the Default BaseFS Size.

The example above mounts the current directory into the container at the same path

As of Docker Engine version 23, you can use relative paths on the host.

When the host directory of a bind-mounted volume doesn't exist, Docker

automatically creates this directory on the host for you.

folder before starting your container.

filesystem as read only prohibiting writes to locations other than the

specified volumes for the container.

By bind-mounting the Docker Unix socket and statically linked Docker

you give the container the full access to create and manipulate the host's

On Windows, you must specify the paths using Windows-style path semantics.

The following examples fails when using Windows-based containers, as the

destination of a volume or bind mount inside the container must be one of:

of a bind mount must be a local directory, not a file.

For in-depth information on the

This also applies if you configured UFW to block this

Docker binds each exposed port to a random port on the host.

/proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_local_port_range

When creating (and running) a container from an image, the daemon checks if the

image exists in the local image cache.

If the image is missing, an error is

returned to the CLI, allowing it to initiate a pull.

This default allows you to run images that only exist

locally (for example, images you built from a Dockerfile, but that have not

been pushed to a registry), and reduces networking.

option makes sure the image is up-to-date, and prevents you from using outdated

images, but may not be suitable in situations where you want to test a locally

built image before pushing (as pulling the image overwrites the existing image

and only uses images that are available in the image cache.

image is not found, an error is produced, and the container is not created.

This option is useful in situations where networking is not available, or to

prevent images from being pulled implicitly when creating containers.

which produces en error as the image is missing in the image-cache:

environment variables in the container you're running, or overwrite variables

defined in the Dockerfile of the image you're running.

You can define the variable and its value when running the container:

You can also use variables exported to your local environment:

When running the command, the Docker CLI client checks the value the variable

has in your local environment and passes it to the container.

environment, the variable is unset in the container.

You can also load the environment variables from a file.

To label a container with two labels:

specify labels with identical keys but different values, each subsequent value

label in the file with an EOL mark.

The example below loads labels from a

labels file in the current directory:

The label-file format is similar to the format for loading environment

variables. (Unlike environment variables, labels are not visible to processes

running inside a container.) The following example shows a label-file

For additional information on working with labels, see

You can connect multiple containers to the same network.

containers can communicate using only another container's IP address

connectivity, containers connected to the same multi-host network but launched

from different Engines can also communicate in this way.

The default bridge network only allows containers to communicate with each other using

User-created bridge networks provide DNS resolution between

containers using container names.

flags when you start the container on a user-defined network.

static IP to containers, you must specify subnet block for the network.

To specify options when connecting to more than one network, use the extended syntax

Comma-separated options that can be specified in the extended

remembering to escape the quotes for the shell if necessary.

Network drivers may restrict the sysctl settings that can be modified and, to protect

the operation of the network, new restrictions may be added in the future.

mount the volumes in read-only or read-write mode, respectively.

Docker mounts the volumes in the same mode (read write or read only) as

Labeling systems like SELinux require placing proper labels on volume

content mounted into a container.

Without a label, the security system might

prevent the processes running inside the container from using the content.

default, Docker does not change the labels set by the OS.

To change the label in the container context, you can add either of two suffixes

These suffixes tell Docker to relabel file

As a result, Docker labels the content with a shared

Shared volume labels allow all containers to read/write content.

Only the current container can use a private volume.

doesn't occupy your terminal window.

By design, containers started in detached

mode exit when the root process used to run the container exits, unless you

removed when it exits or when the daemon exits, whichever happens first.

Instead, to start a process such as

To do input/output with a detached container use network connections or shared

These are required because the container is no longer listening to the

This is useful if the Docker default sequence conflicts with key sequence you

There are two ways to define your own detach key

sequence, as a per-container override or as a configuration property on your

To override the sequence for an individual container, use the

To configure a different configuration default key sequence for all

It's often necessary to directly expose devices to a container.

For example, adding a specific block storage device or loop

device or audio device to an otherwise unprivileged container

If the container is running in privileged mode, then Docker ignores the

Beginning with Windows Server 2019

and Windows 10 October 2018 Update, Windows only supports an IdType of

for a list of container-supported device interface class GUIDs.

If you specify this option for a process-isolated Windows container, Docker makes

For example, the command below makes all COM

ports on the host visible in the container.

[document truncated for prompt size]