AI and machine learning on Databricks

Build, deploy, and manage AI and machine learning applications with Mosaic AI, an integrated platform that unifies the entire AI lifecycle from data preparation to production monitoring.

For a set of tutorials to get you started, see 
AI and machine learning tutorials
.

 Build generative AI applications
​

Develop and deploy enterprise-grade generative AI applications such as fine-tuned LLMs, AI agents, and retrieval-augmented generation.

AI Playground

Prototype and test generative AI models with no-code prompt engineering and parameter tuning.

Foundation Models

Serve state-of-the-art LLMs including Meta Llama, Anthropic Claude, and OpenAI GPT through secure, scalable APIs.

Knowledge Assistant

Simple approach to build and optimize domain-specific, high-quality QA agent chatbots.

Agent Framework

Build and deploy production-quality agents including RAG applications and multi-agent systems with Python.

MLflow for GenAI

Measure, improve, and monitor quality throughout the GenAI application lifecycle using AI-powered metrics and comprehensive trace observability.

Vector Search

Store and query embedding vectors with automatic syncing to your knowledge base for RAG applications.

AI Runtime

Customize single and multi-node deep learning workloads for training and fine-tuning custom models using your favorite frameworks and get state-of-the-art efficiency, performance, and quality.

 Train classic machine learning models
​

Create machine learning models with automated tools and collaborative development environments.

AutoML

Automatically build high-quality models with minimal code using automated feature engineering and hyperparameter tuning.

Databricks Runtime for ML

Pre-configured clusters with TensorFlow, PyTorch, Keras, and GPU support for deep learning development.

MLflow tracking

Track experiments, compare model performance, and manage the complete model development lifecycle.

Feature engineering

Create, manage, and serve features with automated data pipelines and feature discovery.

Databricks notebooks

Collaborative development environment with support for Python, R, Scala, and SQL for ML workflows.

 Train deep learning models
​

Use built-in frameworks to develop deep learning models.

Distributed training

Examples of distributed deep learning using Ray, TorchDistributor, and DeepSpeed.

PyTorch

Single-node and distributed training using PyTorch.

TensorFlow

Single-node and distributed training using TensorFlow and TensorBoard.

Deploy and serve models
​

Deploy models to production with scalable endpoints, real-time inference, and enterprise-grade monitoring.

Model Serving

Deploy custom models and LLMs as scalable REST endpoints with automatic scaling and GPU support.

AI Gateway

Govern and monitor access to generative AI models with usage tracking, payload logging, and security controls.

External models

Integrate third-party models hosted outside Databricks with unified governance and monitoring.

Monitor and govern ML systems
​

Ensure model quality, data integrity, and compliance with comprehensive monitoring and governance tools.

Unity Catalog

Govern data, features, models, and functions with unified access control, lineage tracking, and discovery.

Data profiling

Monitor data quality, model performance, and prediction drift with automated alerts and root cause analysis.

MLflow for Models

Track, evaluate, and monitor generative AI applications throughout the development lifecycle.

Productionize ML workflows
​

Scale machine learning operations with automated workflows, CI/CD integration, and production-ready pipelines.

Models in Unity Catalog

Use the model registry in Unity Catalog for centralized governance and to manage the model lifecycle, including deployments.

Lakeflow Jobs

Build automated workflows and production-ready ETL pipelines for ML data processing.

Ray on Databricks

Scale ML workloads with distributed computing for large-scale model training and inference.

MLOps workflows

Implement end-to-end MLOps with automated training, testing, and deployment pipelines.

Git integration

Version control ML code and notebooks with seamless Git integration and collaborative development.